Autodesk Instructables logo
Projects
Contests
Teachers
Search


Log In
Sign Up
Vegetarian BBQ Tofu!
By musicalsoul in CookingVegetarian & Vegan3,507961Featured
license

Save PDF
Introduction: Vegetarian BBQ Tofu!
Vegetarian BBQ Tofu!
Vegetarian BBQ Tofu!
musicalsoulBy musicalsoulFollow
More by the author:
Decorative Lemon RoseHealthy, Tasty Green SmoothieHomemade Bread!
About: Hi! My name is Kayla and I am 16 yrs. old. I am homeschooled and in the 11th grade. I am a vegetarian and enjoy trying to eat healthy. I play the violin, enjoy school, learning to sew, cooking, drawing, and li… More About musicalsoul »
Homemade BBQ tofu!
What you will need:
2 blocks of Extra Firm Tofu
Ketchup
Molasess
Lemon or Lemon Juice
Salt
Sugar
1 Sweet pepper(optional)
2 scallions(optional)
Measuring cups
Bowl
Pot
Spoon

What I made?
I made an all natural vegan BBQ tofu
How did I make it?
I made it alone and I thought of the flower as I went along.
Where did I make it?
 I made it at home
What did I learn?
I leanred how to make a flower decoration using a pepper and scallions. I am very proud of how it turned out:) If I had to do it again, I would maybe add some pepper( spicy) to give it a lil kick:)
Step 1:

Open and drain the tofu. You can dry out the tofu by blotting it in a napkin just to get all the water that you can out. Cube the tofu and lay on a oven safe tray. Now, turn on the broil setting on your oven to high ( I have an electric oven I now that it makes a difference if you have gas). Broil the tofu until it is dry and lightly toasted, about 20 mins. Make sure you keep turning it so that it is evenly browned.
Step 2: The Sauce
The Sauce
The Sauce
The Sauce
This is a recipie that my older sister came up with years ago and it was so good that we kept making it:) Now this doesn't taste exactly like BBQ sauce that you buy in the store, but its close. 
Using your measuring cup, measure 1 1/2 cup of ketchup and  pour into a bowl. Next meausure 1/2 cup of molasess, i used Black strap, and add to the ketchup. Now, squeeze your lemon and you should get 1/4 cup of juice. I used only one lemon, but use how ever many you need. Now mix that all up. Now pour that mixture into your pot and cook for about 2 mins on med heat. Add your salt and sugar to taste( I added mine before I cooked it but it seems to disolve better if you put in when the sauce is warm).
Step 3: Put 2 and 2 Together:)
Put 2 and 2 Together:)
Put 2 and 2 Together:)
We are almost finished! Your tofu should be finished now, so, you can either pur the tofu in the put and mix or you can puor the sauce over the tofu! Mix well, making sure that the tofu is entirely covered.
You are done!
If you want to do the flower:
Take a sweet pepper, and hold it upside down so that the stem is on the bottom. With a pearing knife cut how ever many petals you want. Make sure that you dont cut all the way down or else your petals will break ( I learned this the hard way:/)
Now carefully bend the petals out and down, so that you expose the middle( seeds).
The leaves:
For the leaves I used scallions that my mom had grown. After washing them, lay the scallions down and cut just the top layer. (Im sorry I dont have a pic, but you know that scallions are hollow in the middle and so dont cut it all the way through) You want to be able to open it up so that it is flat. Now that we understand that, take your knife and slice it into little strips on the longest side. They will curl naturally but if the need some encouragement, you can curl them your self.
Now just arrange your flower and leaves however and wherever you want.
ENJOY!

Participant in:
Make-to-Learn Youth Contest
View Contest
Be the First to Share
Did you make this project? Share it with us!

Log in to post an I Made It
Recommendations

Strawberry Lava-Filled Chocolate Crinkle Cookies in Pressure Cooker
by Jasmine_K in Cookies
1
108
9.7K

Butter Cookie Recipe
by Bublisworldcuisine in Cookies
1
64
4.9K

Triple Raspberry Croissants
by Mallowpuff in Dessert
24
2K
Make it Float
Visual Effects Student Contest
Banner image for Make it Float
Make it Spin
Engineering Student Contest
Banner image for Make it Spin
Space
Contest
Banner image for Space
You must be logged in to post a comment or add an I Made It.

Log In
1 Comment
Avatar image of jgarza2108
jgarza2108
11 years ago
thank you this will defiantly help me stay on the wagon

Log in to post a comment
Open MenuVegetarian BBQ Tofu! by musicalsoulFollowSave PDF Favorite I Made It View Comments Share More Options
Categories
Circuits
Workshop
Design
Craft
Cooking
Living
Outside
Teachers
About Us
Who We Are
Why Publish?
Resources
Get Started
Help
Sitemap
Find Us
© 2025 Autodesk, Inc.

Terms of Service|
Privacy Statement|
Privacy settings | Do not sell or share my personal information|
Legal Notices & Trademarks
Autodesk